# SimBlock User Guide

## 1. Environment requirements
SimBlock is available on operating systems such as Windows, MacOS, Ubuntu Linux or any Unix platform that supports Java.  
It requires JDK and Gradle with the following versions.

Note that the repository of SimBlock includes Gradle wrapper so that you can also install Gradle automatically (we mention it later).

| Software | Version |
|:-----------|:------------|
| JDK | 1.8.0 or later |
| Gradle | 5.1.1 or later |

## 2. Download
Download the SimBlock repository as a zip file from GitHub and unzip, or clone the repository.

Release list: [https://github.com/dsg-titech/simblock/releases](https://github.com/dsg-titech/simblock/releases)  
Command for clone: `$ git clone git@github.com:dsg-titech/simblock.git`

### 2-a. Directory structure
The structure of the unzipped or cloned directory is as follows:  

```
simblock
+-- docs
+-- gradle
|   +-- wrapper
+-- simulator
    +-- src
        +-- dist
        |   +-- conf
        |   +-- out
        |       +-- graph
        +-- main
            +-- java
                +-- SimBlock
                    +-- ...
                    :
```

| Directory | Description |
|:-----------|:------------|
| *docs* | Documents about SimBlock (e.g., user manual) |
| *gradle/wrapper* | For Gradle wrapper |
| *simulator/src/dist/conf* | Directory in which to place the files that simulator reads |
| *simulator/src/dist/out* | Directory where files output by simulator are stored |
| *simulator/src/main/java/SimBlock* | Source codes |

## 3. Build

Hereafter, the name of the root directory of the unzipped or cloned repository is denoted as *\<ROOT_DIR\>*.

First, open a terminal software (e.g., xterm, command prompt, etc.) and move to *\<ROOT_DIR\>*. 

### 3-a. If Gradle is installed
You can build by the following Gradle command, if you have already installed Gradle.

`$ gradle build`

If successful, *build* directory will be created under *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator*.

```
<ROOT_DIR>
+-- simulator
    +-- build
        +-- classes
        +-- distributions
        +-- libs
        +-- scripts
        +-- tmp
```

| Directory | Description |
|:-----------|:------------|
| *simulator/build/classes* | Directory where built class files are stored |
| *simulator/build/distributions* | Directory where distribution archive files (zip, tar) are stored |
| *simulator/build/libs* | Directory where jar files are stored |
| *simulator/build/scripts* | Directory where startup scripts are stored |

Note that the startup scripts in *simulator/build/scripts* are generated for inclusion in the distribution archive;
if you run the scripts with the directory structure as it is, an error will occur.

### 3-b. If Gradle is not installed
You can use *gradlew*（*gradlew.bat*, for Windows user）in *\<ROOT_DIR\>* instead of running Gradle command.

`$ gradlew build`

This is a program called Gradle wrapper, which will automatically install Gradle if it is not installed and call it.

### 3-c. Discard build products
The following Gradle command will delete the files generated by the above build process.

`$ gradle clean`

You can also instruct the execution of *clean* and *build* at one time as follows:

`$ gradle clean build`

In this case, *build* is executed after *clean*.

## 4. Run SimBlock
There are two main ways to run SimBlock: by using Gradle command and by using build products.

### 4-a. Run with Gradle command
Run following Gradle command in *\<ROOT_DIR\>*, then the simulator starts up.

`$ gradle :simulator:run`

Output files of the simulator will be stored in *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/src/dist/output*.

### 4-b. Run with build product
Extract the distribution archive (zip, tar) of *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/build/distributions*.
Then, the following directory structure will be created.

```
SimBlock
+-- bin
+-- conf
+-- lib
+-- output
```

A script for execution is in *bin* directory.

By executing *runSimBlock* (*runSimBlock.bat* for Windows) in the terminal, the simulator starts up.

Output files of the simulator will be stored in *output* directory.

### 4-c. Other ways
The extracted distribution archive contains the jar file of SimBlock (*lib/simulator.jar*).
Of course, it is also possible to execute this jar file directly with the java command.
Note that it is required to set the classpath appropriately.

You can also run SimBlock on IDEs, such as Eclipse.
It is explained later in the section of "Import to IDE".

## 5. Simulator parameter
| Parameter | Location of definition | Description |
|:-----------|:------------|:------------|
| List of region | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.NetworkConfiguration#REGION_LIST* | Regions where nodes can exist. |
| List of latency | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.NetworkConfiguration#LATENCY* | List of letency assigned to each region. |
| List of upload bandwidth | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.NetworkConfiguration#UPLOAD_BANDWIDTH* | List of upload bandwidth assigned to each region. |
| List of download bandwidth | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.NetworkConfiguration#DOWNLOAD_BANDWIDTH* | List of download bandwidth assigned to each region. |
| Distribution of region | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.NetworkConfiguration#REGION_DISTRIBUTION* | The distribution of node's region. |
| Distribution of degree | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.SimulationConfiguration#DEGREE_DISTRIBUTION* | The cumulative distribution of number of outbound links. Cf. Andrew Miller et al., "Discovering bitcoin's public topology and influential nodes", 2015. |
| Block interval | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.SimulationConfiguration#INTERVAL* | Block interval. |
| Routing table | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.SimulationConfiguration#TABLE* | The kind of routing tables. |
| Max block Height | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.SimulationConfiguration#ENDBLOCKHEIGHT* | The block height when a simulation end. |
| Block size | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.SimulationConfiguration#BLOCKSIZE* | Block size. |
| Number of nodes | *BlockChainSimulator.settings.SimulationConfiguration#NUM_OF_NODES* | The number of nodes participating in the blockchain network. |

*SimBlock.settings* package has two classes which have these parameters: *NetworkConfiguration.java* and *SimulationConfiguration.java*.
The former has parameters related to network parameters, and the latter has blockchain parameters.
By changing these parameters and doing build, you can conduct different patterns of simulation.

## 6. Output
The simulator outputs the simulation results to standard output and some files.
The file output location is *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/src/dist/out* for execution by Gradle command.
*SimBlock/output* for run with build product.

output contents are as follows:

- Standard output and *out.txt*
    - The following is listed under block ID
        - ＜node ID, propagation time＞
            - Propagation time: The time from when the block of the block ID is generated to when the node of the node ID is reached.
- *Blocklist.txt*
    - ＜fork information, block height, block ID＞
        - Fork information: One of "OnChain" and "Orphan". "OnChain" denote block is on Main chain. "Orphan" denote block is an orphan block.
- *graph/*
    - *${number}.txt*: Network information when block height is ${number}
        - ＜node ID, node ID＞
            - Connection from left node ID to right node ID.
- *output.json*
	- This file is listing occurred events. By uploading this file into [SimBlock Visualizer](https://github.com/dsg-titech/simblock-visualizer), you can see the visualization.
		- ＜event, content＞
		- Event
			- add-link: Add a node to neighbor nodes.
			- remove-link: Remove a node from neighbor nodes.
			- flow-block: Block transmmission.
			- simulation-end: Simulation end.
		- content
			- timestamp: Order of events.
			- block-id: Block id.
			- transmission-timestamp: Timestamp when a block is transmitted.
			- reception-timestamp: Timestamp when a block is recieved.
			- begin-node-id: Source node.
			- end-node-id: End node.

## 7. Import to IDE
By using Gradle, you can generate configuration files of an IDE and easily import them into it.

### 7-a. For IntelliJ IDEA
By executing the following Gradle command, configuration files for IntelliJ IDEA are generated. 

`$ gradle idea`

Generated files are listed as follows:

| File |
|:-----------|
| *\<ROOT_DIR\>/\<ROOT_DIR\>.iml* |
| *\<ROOT_DIR\>/\<ROOT_DIR\>.ipr* |
| *\<ROOT_DIR\>/\<ROOT_DIR\>.iws* |
| *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/simulator.iml* |

With IntelliJ IDEA, select **File -> Open** and select *\<ROOT_DIR\>.ipr*.
*\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator* will be imported as a module. 

Then, you can run the simulator with the IDE.
For example, select *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/src/main/java/SimBlock/simulator/Main.java* from the tool window of the project structure,
right click and execute **Run 'Main.main ()'**.
Output files will be stored in *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/src/dist/output*.

#### Discard products
The following Gradle command will delete the files generated by `$ gradle idea`.
Note that *\<ROOT_DIR\>.iws* file will not be deleted. Also, if the project is left open in the IDE, the deleted files may be automatically regenerated by the IDE.)

`$ gradle cleanIdea`

You can also instruct the execution of *cleanIdea* and *idea* at one time as follows:

`$ gradle cleanIdea idea`

In this case, *idea* is executed after *cleanIdea*.

### 7-b. For Eclipse
By executing the following Gradle command, configuration files for Eclipse are generated. 

`$ gradle eclipse`

Generated files are listed as follows:

| File |
|:-----------|
| *\<ROOT_DIR\>/.project* |
| *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/.classpath* |
| *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/.project* |
| *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/.settings* |

With Eclipse, select **File -> Open Projects from File System** and select *\<ROOT_DIR\>* as **Import source**.
Check the listed two Eclipse projects, and click **Finish**.
*\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator* and *\<ROOT_DIR\>* will be imported as a project respectively.

Then, you can run the simulator with the IDE.
For example, select the simulator project from Package Explorer, right-click and execute **Run As -> Java Application** to start the simulator.
Output files will be stored in *\<ROOT_DIR\>/simulator/src/dist/output*.

#### Discard products
The following Gradle command will delete the files generated by `$ gradle eclipse`.

`$ gradle cleanEclipse`

You can also instruct the execution of *cleanEclipse* and *eclipse* at one time as follows:

`$ gradle cleanEclipse eclipse`

In this case, *eclipse* is executed after *cleanEclipse*.
